# DevOps-Project

For this “Hello World” DevOps project
I selected Public Cloud (AWS) infrastructure to host the scalable Webserver and Puppet as Configuration Management Tool.
Downloaded and Reused Puppet AWS module and Apache module from the Puppet-Forge.

1.	Launched AWS EC2 instance (t2.micro) (AMI: )(Ubuntu Linux Machine) in region “us-east-1”and  AZ “us-east-1a” with default VPC and installed Puppet Master on that server.
2.	I created the file init.pp by the command touch /etc/puppet/manifests/init.pp
3.	This init.pp file would provision the two AWS EC2 instances Puppet nodes in “DevOpsProjVPC” “DevOpssubnet” “DevOpsSG” in useast-1 Region and AZ.
4.	This file also contains AutoScalling Policies, Launch Configuration .
5.	Puppet nodes are installed on puppet agents by the userdata which mentioned in the init.pp
6.	user template of "apachebootstrap.sh" performs
             Hostnames to the agents
             Modify Permissions
              Allocate Hostnames in Hostname file and Hosts file. Connection between Puppet agent and  Puppet master, and also the puppet master self-signs the   certificates generated by the puppet agent.
7.	wrote site.pp which
	Configures Apache
	Configure HTTP
	Configure HTTPS

8.	The Apache module installed on the two agents.
9.	In site.pp file rules are mentioned how to redirect http request to https. (Changing port number 80 to 443)
10.	Puppet is used to Validate the server Configurations. Facts gathered from the puppet nodes by the FACTER, which is checked every 30 minutes by default to help maintain the server configurations.

This webserver is Hosted on Scalable AWS cloud by using AutoScaling service in AWS and monitoring by CloudWatch service in AWS.
